# CircuitPython Weekly for August 10th, 2020

Video is available here [on YouTube](https://youtu.be/c_9t80xERyA).


Join here for the chat all week: http://adafru.it/discord


The CircuitPython Weekly happens normally at 2pm ET/11am PT on Mondays. Check the #circuitpython channel on Discord for notices of change in time and links to past meetings. Meeting times are also available in iCal format using the following link: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/adafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting/master/meeting.ical for use with standard calendar applications or in your browser: https://open-web-calendar.herokuapp.com/calendar.html?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/adafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting/master/meeting.ical


CircuitPython development is sponsored by Adafruit. Please support them by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com.


Reminders: Podcast available on most services. Let us know if we’re missing some.
________________
## 5:52 Community News
### Make: Magazine - The Rise of Python and Annual Microcontrollers Issue
 Make: Magazine - The Rise of Python 
 Make: Magazine - The Rise of Python 

Make: Magazine's new issue is on its way to subscribers. It's their annual guide to microcontroller boards and features the new Adafruit CLUE board, which is programmable in CircuitPython - Twitter and Author
The Make: Makers’ Guide to Boards is also on their website - Makezine and Their CLUE Review








### CircuitPython 6 Art Released
 CircuitPython 6 Art 

Adafruit has released nice artwork for the CircuitPython 6 debut.


### 7:00 The CircuitPython subreddit hits 1,000 users r/circuitpython 
The CircuitPython subreddit on Reddit.com crossed the 1,000 members mark this past week! Thank you to Reddit readers for choosing to get a Python fix on this subreddit.
Adafruit is dedicated to providing the news on Python and CircuitPython in ones chosen way. Whether via Blog, Newsletter, Video, Instagram, or on Reddit, it's there - Adafruit Blog and Reddit.
### 7:25 A pip user experience survey
 pip survey 

The Python package manager (pip) team is working to improve the usability of pip, for all users. Right now, a lot of what pip does can be confusing and complicated for people who are not Python experts. The team's objective is to understand how to improve that. You can read about the work on the Python Software Foundation website and can hear about the work on this Python podcast.
Right now, the team wants to speak with users about a number of topics. They're interested in speaking with people of all levels of Python experience.
They can't stress enough - you don't need to be a programming expert to take part. In fact they are specifically looking to hear from those who are not programmers. They're looking for diverse users to take part in the research - if you use pip they are interested in hearing from you.
If you're interested in speaking with the team about your experiences, the first thing to do is to sign up for UX Studies.
### Open Source at Google
 Open Source at Google 
 Open Source at Google 



A summary of the contributions Google has provided to Open Source Software:
At Google, open source is at the core of our infrastructure, processes, and culture. As such, participation in these communities is vital to our productivity. Within OSPO (Open Source Programs Office), our mission is to bring the value of open source to Google and the resources of Google to open source. To ensure our actions match our commitment, in this post we will explore a variety of metrics intended to increase context, transparency, and accountability across all of the communities we engage with.
They state that their intentions are twofold: give back to the communities they depend on as well as expand support for open source overall. Google firmly believes in open source and its ability to bring together users, contributors, and companies alike to deliver better software - Google Open Source Blog.
### Using CircuitPython with the Rainbow HAT
Multiple projects combining CircuitPython and the Pimoroni Rainbow HAT
 Rainbow HAT and CircuitPython 

An Adafruit CLUE is controlling the Rainbow HAT from Pimoroni using the Bit:2:Pi from 4tronics to provide connectivity. Simultaneous LED animation on the 7 DotStar and fading the brightness of the four 14 segments display - Twitter.
 FeatherCap 

The new FeatherCap for connecting Adafruit Feathers to Raspberry Pi HATs - Twitter.
### 9:10 CircuitPython Day is 9-9-2020
 CircuitPython Day: 9-9-2020 

Adafruit has chosen September 9, 2020 (9/9/2020) as the snakiest day of this year for CircuitPython Day! Much more to come on events and happenings to include a CircuitPython team livestream, collaboration with hardware and software folks, and highlighting all things Python and Python on Hardware. More information will be forthcoming. Ideas? Send them via email to circuitpythonday@adafruit.com.
### 9:57 Newsletter
Join at adafruitdaily.com. Thanks to Anne for putting it together every week!
https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython-weekly-newsletter/blob/gh-pages/_drafts/2020-08-04-draft.md


## 10:44 State of CircuitPython, Libraries and Blinka


### 11:21 Overall
* 502 pull requests merged - this is not accurate.
  * 18 authors - jepler, sommersoft, brentru, Flameeyes, jerryneedell, kattni, fede2cr, wtuemura, dherrada, FoamyGuy, 2bndy5, ciscorn, caternuson, makermelissa, bergdahl, dhalbert, weblate, siddacious
  * 14 reviewers - jepler, sommersoft, brentru, ladyada, jerryneedell, kattni, tannewt, FoamyGuy, dherrada, caternuson, makermelissa, dhalbert, jedgarpark, siddacious
* 23 closed issues by 12 people, 10 opened by 9 people


Overall: The current CircuitPython core focus is WiFi and HCI _bleio. The goal is to do another 6.x release this week. We’ve seen a lot of new folks helping out in the core as well which is excellent. The libraries are seeing a steady increase as Adafruit ramps back up with manufacturing new boards. There’s been a flutter of activity on the libraries over the past week as we've done some housekeeping. Blinka is continuing to grow. Melissa is working to add the STM32MP1 board to Blinka, and over the last week, there was an update to SPI for the FT232H. Thank you to everyone who is participating, and we’re looking forward to seeing what you continue to contribute!
### 13:51 Core
* 7 pull requests merged
  * 8 authors - jepler, sommersoft, fede2cr, wtuemura, ciscorn, bergdahl, dhalbert, weblate
  * 2 reviewers - jepler, tannewt
* 18 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2966 (Open 74 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3044 (Open 54 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3144 (Open 30 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3192 (Open 17 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3191 (Open 17 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3224 (Open 11 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3231 (Open 10 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3232 (Open 9 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3237 (Open 8 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3238 (Open 7 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3243 (Open 6 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3245 (Open 5 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3244 (Open 5 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3249 (Open 4 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3251 (Open 3 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3255 (Open 2 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3256 (Open 1 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3258 (Open 0 days)
* 1 closed issues by 1 people, 1 opened by 1 people
* 317 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/issues
* 7 active milestones
  * 6.0.0: 10 open issues
  * 6.x.0 - Features: 2 open issues
  * 6.x.x - Bug Fixes: 6 open issues
  * 7.0.0: 3 open issues
  * Libraries: 12 open issues
  * Long term: 283 open issues
  * Support: 1 open issues
  * 0 issues not assigned a milestone


* Core download stats available at https://circuitpython.org/stats
### 15:15 Libraries
* 494 pull requests merged - this is not accurate.
  * 9 authors - brentru, Flameeyes, jerryneedell, kattni, dherrada, FoamyGuy, 2bndy5, makermelissa, siddacious
  * 14 reviewers - jepler, sommersoft, brentru, ladyada, jerryneedell, kattni, tannewt, FoamyGuy, dherrada, caternuson, makermelissa, dhalbert, jedgarpark, siddacious
  * Merged pull requests:
    * To see a list of PRs, please see https://adafruit-circuit-python.s3.amazonaws.com/adabot/bin/reports/circuitpython_library_report_20200810.txt
* 18 closed issues by 8 people, 9 opened by 8 people
* https://circuitpython.org/contributing
  * 184 open issues
  * 9 good first issues
  * 42 open pull requests (Oldest: 581, Newest: 1)
Library updates in the last seven days:
**New Libraries**
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_MS8607](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MS8607)
**Updated Libraries**
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_MCP230xx](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MCP230xx)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_ProgressBar](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_ProgressBar)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Shapes](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Shapes)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_GC_IOT_Core](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_GC_IOT_Core)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_MiniMQTT](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MiniMQTT)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_BNO055](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_BNO055)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_AdafruitIO](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_AdafruitIO)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_RFM9x](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_RFM9x)
 * [Adafruit_Blinka](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka)


### 17:23 Blinka
* 1 pull requests merged
  * 1 authors - caternuson
  * 2 reviewers - caternuson, ladyada
* 2 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/304 (Open 63 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/322 (Open 17 days)
* 4 closed issues by 4 people, 0 opened by 0 people
* 23 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/issues
* PyPI Downloads in the last week: None
Number of supported boards: 52




## 18:47 Hug reports


@anecdata (lurking)


@anneb (lurking)

25:21 @brentru (lurking)
* @jerryn for LoRa build size reduction


@cater (lurking)


@cgrover (lurking)


@charlesburnaford (lurking)


25:32 @danh
* @jepler for significant flash storage savings fixes, reducing the pressure on small builds.


@davep (lurking)


26:23 @David.Glaude
* @tannewt for showing how to modify the Saola(?) ESP32 S2 Feather adaptor.
* @jerryn for sharing the gcc10 toolchain for Raspberry Pi.
* @Jeff E. for the SD card work and learn guide.
* @Gadgetoid for making the Enviro+ Feather Wing more Circuit Python


28:17 @Duewester (lurking)
* All - for still being here


28:25 @foamyguy
* Discord user @skerr for helping people work through some tough issues in the #help-with-circuitpython channel
* @kattni and the other moderators for allowing me to join the team. 
* @kmatch98 for digging into the core some more and working on Bitmap Blit.
* Group Hug


@gadgetoid (lurking)


30:03 @hierophect
* @kattni for setting up the PCBHelpers role
* Group hug


@Jayguitar (lurking)


30:21 @jepler
* Group Hug
* @danh for thinking to mention some memory savings upstream to micropython
* Adafruit for open source PCB designs, I have some purple PCBs incoming based on an Adafruit design.
* New translation contributor Ciscorn, hope we can get the new Japanese translation merged soon


31:45 @jerryn
* @jepler for the size reduction work.
* Welcome to the new Discord Moderators!
* Group Hug


20:04 @kattni
* @foamyguy and @fede2 for becoming new moderators on the Adafruit Discord
* @hierophect, @deshipu and @electronic_harry for becoming the new PCB helpers on Discord
* @Mr. Certainly for helping with the Moderation Team Expectations document
* Group hug for everyone I’ve missed


@kingernorth (lurking)


22:00 @kmatch98
* @dastels for the learn guide: Extending CircuitPython
* @deshipu and @jepler for big “little hints” about making new CP functions
* @foamyguy for testing bitmap_label
* @kjw for identifying a display_text issue, and providing examples


22:35 @MakerMelissa
* @tannewt for your suggestions on the MatrixPortal Library
* @TinkeringTech for updating board info on CircuitPython.org
* @michaellass for addressing some libgpiod_pulsein issues on GitHub
* @ChrisGammel for providing the Getting to Blinky videos for learning KiCad.


@Mark(Gamblor) (lurking)


23:12 @Mr. Certainly [text only]
* Kattni and Krayola for the awesome neopixel animation library.
* Thank you to all the new Discord Helpers & Mods. Seeing folks step up and be a role model is so wonderful to see.


23:32 @stargirl (text only/offline)
* Community mods for not only keep our community safe, but also for looking after one another.


23:43 @tannewt
* Bleeptrack for the very pretty PCB designs that run CircuitPython
* Ciscorn for continuing to improve our stubs and docs.
* Kmatch98 for jumping into core CP work.
* Krayola and kattni for making neopixel animations fast.
* Gadgetoid for creating a CP driver.
* Dherrada for being a great team member this summer.
* Kaela, lincoln and stella from major league hacking who improved Glider over the summer.
## 32:18 Status Updates


@anecdata (lurking)


@anneb (lurking)


@cater (lurking)


@cgrover (lurking)


@charlesburnaford (lurking)


43:11 @danh
* _bleio HCI: finished service/characteristic/descriptor discovery implementation for peripherals. Now implementing characteristic read and write, and sending notifications.. When done BLE UART will be working on the peripheral side.
* Fixed some ruby library dependency issues in the circuitpython.org repo. We needed a security update, and it caused a cascade of dependency changes. The easiest solution was to start using the github-pages Ruby gem, which manages all the appropriate dependencies.
* Fixed circup to use 5.x and 6.x library bundles instead of 4.x and 5.x.

@davep (lurking)


45:40 @David.Glaude
   * FeatherWing Enviro+: Test of Pimoroni_CircuitPython_LTR559 library by Gadgetoid that is now in the community bundle.
   * Made something with a CLUE displaying on the Rainbow HAT: https://twitter.com/DavidGlaude/status/1292448286956310529?s=20 
   * SD Card: Created a code.py that check if SD is present, if present change the library path to look into /sd/lib and run the main.py from the SD card. So you can make microSD card that act as “game cartridge” on the PyGamer. Without the SD it run the main.py from internal flash.
   * Unboxing:
   * Feather nRF Sense and M4 Express received => now I have most kind of MCU in feather format: (ESP8266), M0, M4, STM32, nRF52840 [+ sense]. But I don’t have an ESP32S2 yet.
   * My Colour Maximite 2 (with build in STM32H743IIT6 Rev V) => great, but run Basic rather than Circuit Python.


47:30 @foamyguy
   * Testing display_text library addition bitmap_label
   * Working on displayio layouts library. I think I am satisfied with the JSON syntax for defining layouts. Have begun working on layouts with built-in rules for placing elements.
   * Learning the ropes of community moderators
   * Working on tweak to display_button to make it behave more like the other displayio objects
   * Teaching Javascript some evenings reduced time for Circuit Python for a few weeks.


@gadgetoid (lurking)


49:45 @hierophect:
   * Last week:
   * Finished PulseOut for the ESP32-S2
   * Started PulseIn for the ESP32-S2
   * Did some maintenance on my Neopixel PR
   * Testing on neopixel bug related to pointers in Main
   * Worked a little on the STM32F1 - getting a development board sent to me from China since it’s hard to find them here. 
   * This week:
   * Working on wrapping up Neopixel and getting PulseIn/PulseOut in for review
   * Docs/module cleanup - I’d like to make module management consistent across ports, and remove some recent issues. 
   * Bug wrangling - I’d like to categorize all the bugs that need my attention and prioritize them. 






@Jayguitar (lurking)


52:59 @jepler
   * Last week: Most impactful was probably some memory size reductions that helped the M0 builds.  Struggled to make meaningful progress on Sharp Memory Displays, after expecting it to be “easy”
   * This week: Sharp Memory Display work continues.  Struggling with memory corruption problems, need to carefully review the code so far.
   * Need to check in with Dave P. about git problems & the PulseIn PR, I’ve let that languish
   * May benefit from Scott’s input on the PR if he had time to get into pulseio-mind
   * Quick question: we have a pending PR to add a new board, but they are waiting for a USB PID allocation from pid.codes, who have been napping for months.  Can we go ahead and merge?
   * Fun stuff: learned a lot about the Si5351 clock synthesizer, made some enhancements to it, but they don’t work on builds without long ints


56:14 @jerryn
   * Submitted PR to “freeze” rfm9x library into feather_m0_rfm9x build
   * Can now run the code from the guide using bme280.
   * Currently removes pulseio since it is not working for SAMD21 - no DHT support.
   * May be able to fit it when it is fixed … still tight for some translations.
   * Will work on similar changes for RFM69
   * Updated RFM9X library to implement reset without the need for an internal pull-up.
   * There was a use-case for this and it is now consistent with other libraries.
   * Continued experimenting with gcc10 -- still have issues with samd51.
   * Fun -- retired the birdhouse (with interior camera).
   * Had two sets of bird nest in it (tufted titmouse, House wren).
   * Will make some changes for next year. Lessons learned.




33:08 @kattni
   * Last week:
   * Updated Two or three guides with revisions for Stemma QT BME 680, 0.96 inch OLED display
   * Assisted with ICM20948 9-DoF IMU guide 
   * created initial parts of the guide for ST25DV16K I2C RFID EEPROM Breakout -- only an Arduino lib to date
   * Created many fritzing diagrams
   * Misc. things done including verifying CPX and MakeCode do not work on iPad
   * Belated hug report to JP for help creating reusable assets in Premier for the CircuitPython Video Newsletter Recap
   * Created PCB Helpers role
   * This week:
   * Filing issue on adabot to add cookie cutter checks
   * One more fritzing object
   * Misc. things
   * PR sweep on libraries
   * Requested by author to look at PR
   * Update code of conduct (in circuitpython libs) to reflect changes we have made -- no longer want to mention specific Discord user names
   * Add an adabot check to look for repos that don’t have descriptions (text at the upper right) so that everything gets descriptions


37:43 @kmatch98
Last week: 
   * Submitted PR to resolve text placement peculiarity when starting with “” (empty) string (display_text\label.py)
   * Submitted PR and two examples for bitmap_label.py (a memory-sipping but immutable method for displaying text, targeting parameter interchangeability with label.py)
   * Extended displayio to add bitmap slice-copy (blit) function.  Shows “big” speed improvement; makes bitmap_label similar performance to label.py.
This week:
   * Clean up displayio bitmap.blit function. 
   * Document what I understand about how CircuitPython connects between C and Python


40:02 @MakerMelissa
   * Last Week:
   * Finished up refactoring MatrixPortal Library
   * Helped JP make some adjustments to his On-Air code to work with my library changes
   * Started working on adding the STM32MP1 board to Blinka.
   * Still establishing the specific OS setup path I want to use
   * Attempted to build a Debian Image, which failed, so I’m trying again
   * This Week:
   * Continue working on adding STM32MP1 to Blinka
   * Hopefully get the MatrixPortal Library published and added to Bundle. Waiting on PR approval at this point.
   * Other:
   * Working on learning KiCad because I have some board projects I want to design


@Mr. Certainly [lurking]


41:00 @stargirl (text only/offline)
   * Moved! (still waiting on my stuff to get here)
   * Ordered PCBs for my next project. :3
   * Managed to brick and then unbrick a SAMD21 by misusing the memory bus. What fun!


41:17 @tannewt
   * Scanning works now with an antenna. Added ipaddress module support.
   * Need to test ping.
   * Took Friday off for a hike.
   * Will add socket this week.
   * May also take a detour to debug FS corruption that occurs with WiFi active it seems.
## 59:24 In The Weeds


59:45 @David.Glaude:
   * Should Adafruit maintain a repository of free, frequently used fonts that work well with displayio? Maybe starting with those found in Learn Guide repository.
   * 1:00:40 i2c = board.I2C() VS i2c = busio.I2C(board.SCL, board.SDA) … maybe @kattni can re-explain (that was discussed a few weeks ago).
1:02:48 @hierophect
   * Just wanted to check up on this because I know it’s been discussed before but I don’t remember if we ever resolved it. When I search for a readthedocs page on Google, only the oldest versions of the documentation tend to show up. I’ve found some links on Stack Overflow that suggest this is a fixable problem via a Sphinx setting, is that something we’ve tried or is there an obstacle that prevents such a fix? 


## 1:07:10 Wrap-Up
