# CircuitPython Weekly for August 3, 2020

Video is available here [on YouTube](https://youtu.be/dt1AeMOm8ec).


Join here for the chat all week: http://adafru.it/discord


The CircuitPython Weekly happens normally at 2pm ET/11am PT on Mondays. Check the #circuitpython channel on Discord for notices of change in time and links to past meetings. Meeting times are also available in iCal format using the following link: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/adafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting/master/meeting.ical for use with standard calendar applications or in your browser: https://open-web-calendar.herokuapp.com/calendar.html?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/adafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting/master/meeting.ical


CircuitPython development is sponsored by Adafruit. Please support them by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com.


Reminders: Podcast available on most services. Let us know if we’re missing some.
## 5:20 Community News


5:39 Black Lives Matter Microcontroller Board Coming to CircuitPython

Ladyada is making final tests on the Adafruit Black Lives Matter Board. Shown on Ask an Engineer & Top Secret, this board shows up as a USB flash drive when connected to a computer to hold files, pictures, and CircuitPython code. It has 4 edge-lit LEDs and 4 capacitive touchpads and the iconic symbol on the front. Common alkaline batteries power this board and it has a lanyard ring for wearing - Top Secret.

6:17 RedMonk's Language Popularity Survey

Yet another programming survey (YAPS): RedMonk's language popularity rankings - Programming language popularity: Python overtakes Java – as Rust reaches top 20. For the first time since 2012, Java is not in one of the two top spots - ZDNet.


6:43 A FeatherWing to Raspberry Pi Adapter Board

An adapter board for attaching a FeatherWing to a Raspberry Pi - GitHub.


6:59 Python Releases This Week

Python 3.8.5 was released as a security hotfix. Python 3.9.0b5, the last beta before 3.9.0, is also available - Python.Org.


7:29 Thermal Camera Python Support

UTi165 Thermal Camera Python example now works with Windows - thanks to whomever fixed the bug we were having in opencv for Python - you can now grab frames from these low-cost thermal cameras on Mac, Linux AND Windows - Adafruit Learning System.


8:00 CircuitPython Day is 9-9-2020

Adafruit has chosen September 9, 2020 (9/9/2020) as the snakiest day of this year for CircuitPython Day! Much more to come on events and happenings to include a CircuitPython team livestream, collaboration with hardware and software folks, and highlighting all things Python and Python on Hardware. More information will be forthcoming. Ideas? Send them via email to circuitpythonday@adafruit.com.


8:41 Adafruit Update

Adafruit is shipping orders!
Production is up and now is the best time to get the Adafruit items you've been waiting for - Shop Adafruit.


9:09 Newsletter

Join at adafruitdaily.com. Thanks to Anne for putting it together every week!
https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython-weekly-newsletter/blob/gh-pages/_drafts/2020-08-04-draft.md

## 9:52 State of CircuitPython, Libraries and Blinka
### 10:16 Overall
* 19 pull requests merged
  * 17 authors - weblate, dhalbert, WarriorOfWire, 2bndy5, makermelissa, phil-shenk, kmatch98, dherrada, bergdahl, NathanBnm, wtuemura, cwalther, jepler, ryevertigo, fede2cr, hathach, joeycastillo
  * 7 reviewers - tannewt, brentru, jepler, dhalbert, deshipu, ladyada, makermelissa
* 10 closed issues by 5 people, 18 opened by 17 people


Overall: We’re towards the tail end of the 6.0 development.  It’s very exciting.  Our library count continues to grow despite the fact that we thought we were done with everything.  I’m seeing more and more people use Blinka as well, so libraries are even bigger than CircuitPython itself.  Credit to Melissa and Kattni for leading those efforts.

### 12:22 Core
* 14 pull requests merged
  * 14 authors - weblate, kmatch98, dherrada, dhalbert, bergdahl, NathanBnm, WarriorOfWire, wtuemura, cwalther, jepler, ryevertigo, fede2cr, hathach, joeycastillo
  * 4 reviewers - deshipu, jepler, tannewt, dhalbert
* 13 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2966 (Open 67 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3044 (Open 47 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3144 (Open 23 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3192 (Open 10 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3191 (Open 10 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3224 (Open 4 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3231 (Open 3 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3233 (Open 2 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3232 (Open 2 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3237 (Open 1 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3236 (Open 1 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3239 (Open 0 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/3238 (Open 0 days)
* 3 closed issues by 2 people, 3 opened by 3 people
* 315 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/issues
* 7 active milestones
  * 6.0.0: 7 open issues
  * 6.x.0 - Features: 2 open issues
  * 6.x.x - Bug Fixes: 3 open issues
  * 7.0.0: 3 open issues
  * Libraries: 11 open issues
  * Long term: 281 open issues
  * Support: 1 open issues
  * 7 issues not assigned a milestone


* Core download stats available at https://circuitpython.org/stats

### 13:47 Libraries
* 5 pull requests merged
  * 5 authors - kmatch98, dherrada, phil-shenk, 2bndy5, makermelissa
  * 5 reviewers - tannewt, brentru, dhalbert, ladyada, makermelissa
  * Merged pull requests:
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_BME680/pull/32 (Days open: 12)
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MiniMQTT/pull/47 (Days open: 5)
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Shapes/pull/20 (Days open: 2)
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_BusDevice/pull/57 (Days open: 1)
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_RGB_Display/pull/85 (Days open: 1)
* 5 closed issues by 3 people, 13 opened by 12 people
* https://circuitpython.org/contributing
  * 183 open issues
  * 9 good first issues
  * 41 open pull requests (Oldest: 574, Newest: 1)
Library updates in the last seven days:
**Updated Libraries**
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Text](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Text)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_SGP30](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_SGP30)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_RGB_Display](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_RGB_Display)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Shapes](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Display_Shapes)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_MiniMQTT](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MiniMQTT)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_BME680](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_BME680)

### 16:25 Blinka
* 0 pull requests merged
  * 0 authors - 
  * 0 reviewers - 
* 3 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/304 (Open 56 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/316 (Open 24 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/322 (Open 10 days)
* 2 closed issues by 2 people, 2 opened by 2 people
* 25 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/issues
* PyPI Downloads in the last week: 1503
Number of supported boards: 52

## 16:56 Hug reports
18:21 @tannewt
* @hierophect for adding neopixel support to esp32s2
* @ryang14 for implementing memoryio
* @fede2 for helping with translations!
* @kattni for leading this community and the folks that make it awesome
* All the mods for responding quickly to spam
* @hathach for updating tinyusb in circuitpython
* @igrr for helping me through ram linking issue
* @whitequark for nmigen and help with it


@v923z (lurking)


@anecdata (lurking)


@anneb (lurking)


19:36 @brentru (lurking)
* @tannewt @hierophect and everyone working on esp32s2, got 3x from mouser (fast delivery time!) and I’m excited to catch up and start using them.
* Group hug


@cater (lurking)


@charlesburnaford (lurking)


20:02 @danh
* @jepler for setting up actions to build mpy-cross on multiple platforms a long time ago.
* @jerryn for updating frozen modules.
* @TheGuardianWolf for noticing Windows cookie-cutter problem and proposing a fix (which must await a new release of cookie-cutter).
* @community moderators for thoughtful discussions of moderation issues and creation of a document on the topic.


@dave p (lurking)


21:25 @David.Glaude (lurking)
* To the one reading this (this time and all the previous one) as it is really a comfort not to have to find a quiet place and a working microphone.
* @MakerMelissa for pointing me to the image processing for circuitpython.org
* @siddacious and @cater for tracking where the LSM6DS33 pedometer was lost (that was needed for some CLUE/Adabox 15 example code)
* Group hug as I failed to properly better target Hug reports


@deshipu (lurking)


@dherrada (lurking)


@Duewester (lurking)


22:09 @fede2
* @community moderators for being diligent and very quick
* @anneb for organizing CircuitPython day 2020
* @kattni for offering to help with a CircuitPython day event 
* Group hug, for making this a place where I want to collaborate to, even when there is no time


22:50 @foamyguy
* @deʃhipu for pointing me in the direction of the git cherry-pick command
* @KingerNorth, @AnonEngineering, and @askpatrickw for joining CircuitPython Helpers
* @Kmatch98 for digging into the core and fixing an issue with Group.insert()
* @fede2 for the Quetzalblinka art
* @anecdata and @kattni for writing and pinning an excellent welcome message in the #help-with-circuitpython channel
* Group Hug


24:08 @hierophect
* @jerryn and @fede2cr for their testing and reviews
* @Joey for designing the OpenBook and staying up late to help me with Babel 
* @Jepler and @dhalbert for quick fixes on main regarding the CI


@JacobT (lurking)


25:03 @jepler
* V923z for continued work on ulab, including trying to chase down the documentation problem (that is almost certainly an autodoc or sphinx bug based on information we have at this time)
* Dave P. for working on PulseIn and persevering with git submodule snafus
* Dan H for helpful reviews
* Jerry for helpful testing and a PR in the core
* Kattni for a super long help session on my guide
* Group hug


26:27 @jerryn
* Adafruit for being responsive to moderators request for help with uptick in issues.
* @fede2 for pointing me to distcc -- have not tried yet, but certainly will
* @hierephect for the esp32s2 neopixel support
* Group Hug


27:10 @kattni
* Hug and welcome to our new CircuitPython Helpers - @KingerNorth, @AnonEngineer and @askpatrickw!
* Another hug and welcome to our upcoming new mods - @foamyguy and @fede2!
* @Community Moderators on Discord for hanging in there while we continue to try to sort out the increase in moderation issues.
* @jepler for running his first meeting last week - great job!
* @fede2 for powering through translating more guides
* @fede2 for Quetzalblinka and for participating in CircuitPython day
* @anecdata for putting together a Getting Started message for me to pin in #help-with-circuitpython channel


28:34 @kingernorth (text only)
* A hug for adding me to the CircuitPython Helpers roll
* General hug for all 


28:47 @kmatch98
* @tannewt for feedback on display_text memory usage with TileGrid
* @foamyguy for encouragement and focus


29:25 @MakerMelissa
* Hug report to @ladyada for rewriting the PiTFT Script and ST7789 driver. Very impressive.
* Hug report for @foamyguy and @fede2 as new moderators
* Group Hug


29:54 @Mr. Certainly [text only]
* @community moderators for being awesome and their collaborative spirit.
* Please welcome our new CircuitPython and Community Helpers! You're the role models of what our community aspires to be. Seeing folks help each other out like this is why this community was created in the first place. 
## 30:21 Status Updates
31:29 @tannewt
* Making progress on native Wifi API. Wrote logic for scanning and now debugging it. Ran into issues with RAM linking and also the partition size once everything was linked in.
* The scanning logic now executes without crashing but doesn’t return any results. Suspect I need to configure the wifi before starting it.
* Focussing on getting wifi set.
* Slowly making FPGA progress in my spare time.
* Taking Friday off to get outside on a hike.


@v923z (lurking)


@anecdata (lurking)


@anneb (lurking)


@brentru (lurking)


@cater (lurking)


@charlesburnaford (lurking)


@cvincent (assume lurking)


33:19 @danh
* Yet more work on _bleio HCI. I now have a complete mental picture of the multiple protocols involved, and am writing more code. Now debugging service discovery.
* Mpy-cross executables are now uploaded to S3 on every build. Thanks @jepler for help.
* Also with @jepler, squeezed some overflowing builds to make them fit.
* Fix one cause of Linux crashing when CircuitPython resets.
* Updated circup for new bundles.
* To do:
   * Continue on _bleio HCI.
   * Re-test Bluetooth pulse oximeter (though it seems to be OK).


@dave p (lurking)


36:40 @David.Glaude (lurking)
* Sorry, lost track, not enough time to prepare this meeting…
* Found that step tracker was missing from CLUE library and reported with an issue.
* Wanted to change @UnexpectedMaker ESP32S2 board image with a dark one but did not find the time to do it. (actually I wanted all board images to be with dark background as my new screen was set to super bright)


@deshipu (lurking)


37:11 @dherrada
        Last week
* Finished astrophotography tracker
* Designing a 60% mechanical keyboard that uses a feather board


This week
* Finishing up learn guide for astrophotography tracker
* Designing an acrylic keyboard case for the keyboard and ordering everything


@duewester (lurking)


37:56 @fede2
        Last week
   * Translating CircuitPython Library
   * Testing @hierophect’s neopixel PR
   * Commissioning the creation of Quetzalblinka
        This week
* Translating the CPX product guide
* Learning how to add PSRAM support for the ESP32-S2. @tannewt, all offered help if now extra-welcome
* Creating a website for CircuitPython day Centralamerica/spanish
* If no objections, modify jekyll to accommodate translations for circuitpython.org (in the weeds)


39:16 @foamyguy
        Last week
* Found and fixed an issue stemming from the recent ProgressBar update.
* Impulse bought Seeed Wio Terminal and Xiao. Surprised with how fast they arrived. Got Circuit Python flashed on them and Win7 USB drivers sorted out.
* Got back to work on my JSON Layout system for displayio. Added ProgressBar and the new Sparkline shape and refactored to only import views as needed.
* Found a fix for CLUE sensor project that was running out of memory after recent display_text changes.
* Learned how to use cookiecutter and started creating VectorProgressBar library.
        This week
* Fix a few remaining CI issues with VectorProgressBar and look into submitting it for the Community Bundle
* Testing the bitmap_label
* Investigate logger template string replacement issue in circup


42:31 @hierophect
* Last week
   * Mostly worked on the Neopixel and the PulseIn/PulseOut implementation
* This week
   * Work on PulseIn and PulseOut for the ESP32-S2
   * Switching over to F1 Flash briefly to get that unblocked, maybe? I can’t find any good dev boards for it and it’s making me question the endeavor. 
* Fun stuff
   * Made a flashcard app on the Open Book using Json. It was neat to be able to build and test an application on my host computer, and then move it over to Circuitpython without much effort. Kudos to Joey who created the Babel translation flash image that makes true unicode support possible on Circuitpython. 


@JacobT (lurking)


45:49 @jepler
* Last week:
   * New guide covering the SDIO & SPI breakout board as well as the new SD card functionality in 6.0 alpha releases.
   * Moving a number of PRs towards mergeability
   * Enabling framebufferio displays to be coded in pure Python, purpose: sharp memory display support
* This week:
   * TBD - depends how the framebufferio changes are received.  Either changing approach to do Memory Displays fully in core, or upstreaming the library changes that make the Memory Displays work with framebufferio
   * Maybe figuring out how ardupy enables C++ libs
* Fun stuff:
   * Sent off a PCB for manufacture.  Si5351 Frequency synthesizer with external reference input and Trinket for control/setup.  Now I have to wait for Trinkets to come back in stock!  (as well as for the PCB)


48:17 @jerryn
* Found and reported an issue with PulseIn for M0 boards
   * PR by @DavePutz  is in, but  is not working for me yet
* Trying to test @hierophect neopixel PR for esp32s2 but my builds with it won’t boot. Not sure why. Seems to work for others.
* Submitted PR to update frozen Libraries
* Testing gcc10 for CP build
   * Seems to break SAMD51 boards …. OK on SAMD21
      * Has anyone tested a SAMD51 uf2 built with gcc10?
   * Built gcc10 arm toolchain for Raspberry Pi -- I can provide a tarball if anyone wants it.


51:12 @kattni
* Last week:
   * Recruited some new CircuitPython Helpers following up recruiting one of two of them into Community Moderators.
   * Helped @anecdata with formatting a very well written message full of great CircuitPython getting started links and info for me to pin in the #help-with-circuitpython channel on Discord
   * Helped @fede2 with a guide issue - turns out it’s by design, no solution for now
   * Created three new fritzing objects including the Grand Central M4 which is the most complicated one I’ve ever done and of course it was full of weird problems because why not
   * Updated the BME680 guide to feature the STEMMA QT version of the board
* This week:
   * Update 0.96” 128x64 OLED graphic display with STEMMA QT version
   * Fritzing diagrams for AS7341
   * Update the M0 default files in the circuitpython-default-files GitHub repo
   * Finish the ICM-20948 fritzing object
   * Start guide for ICM20948
   * Link the default files for the Metro M4 Express Airlift guide and reply to a forum post
   * Update the MotorKit guide with using multiple I2C objects
   * Contacted Justin about translating CircuitPython.org


53:25 @kingernorth (text only)
* Last week I did another live stream on my youtube channel for my show Micro-controllers with kingernorth and the topic was Trinket M0 with CircuitPython and Arduino, https://youtu.be/ELXsPOX9-MU 
* This week I’m working on a couple of projects for my model railroad layout for an automated turntable and a weight scale for my mine.
* Also this week I’m setting up a course for the local college for a fully on-line Arduino programming course using the Adafruit MetroX kit. CircuitPython courses are coming later.


54:07 @kmatch98
* Mostly done with display_text ‘bitmap_label’ alternate for ‘label’ to reduce memory for large amounts of text
* Fixed bug with displayio.Group
This week:
* Finish testing and submit PR to add display_text ‘bitmap_label’
Other projects:
* Plan the next mechanical project 


54:54 @MakerMelissa
* Last Week:
   * Worked on refactoring MatrixPortal Library. Getting close
   * Tested Raspberry Pi PiTFT driver changes made by @ladyada
* This Week:
   * Test and Fix other PiTFT issues related to rotation and touch
   * Finish up refactoring and testing the MatrixPortal library


@Mr. Certainly [lurking]
## 55:37 In The Weeds
@fede2
* 55:54 Is it ok if I add translations support and start a spanish translation of the circuitpython.org site? @danh says it’s ok, and that he’d like to have a lang selector, so that the visitor can move between translations.
   * @kattni - Yes - already contacted Justin with how we’ll get started.
* 57:45 The Wio Terminal jumped in the downloads sorting which is based on download-for-dev-count. Why did it happen so fast? Is the circuitpythonistas-to-be number from CN so big? Mandarin translations? Other big hw vendors we should extend a hand to?


1:01:38 @jepler - non-circuitpython community meeting? Mods & helpers meeting?  Other ways that the community needs to connect

## 1:09:07 Wrap-Up
