# CircuitPython Weekly for 23 March 2020
Video is available here [on YouTube](https://youtu.be/Lg69T4qpszM).


Join here for the chat all week: http://adafru.it/discord


The CircuitPython Weekly happens normally at 2pm ET/11am PT on Mondays. Check the #circuitpython channel on Discord for notices of change in time and links to past meetings.  The meeting schedule is also in an “icalendar/ics” format calendar, which works with many calendar packages.  Copy and paste this URL into any compatible software: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/adafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting/master/meeting.ical


CircuitPython development is sponsored by Adafruit. Please support them by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com or resellers including https://www.digikey.com/


Reminders: Podcast available on most services. Let us know if we’re missing some.
## 3:40 Community News
Adafruit status - https://blog.adafruit.com/2020/03/22/covid/


LIMITED SHIPPING Adafruit Industries, Essential manufacturing business: NYC – Executive Order 202.6
https://blog.adafruit.com/2020/03/22/covid/


Adafruit Industries was deemed an essential manufacturing in New York, NY by  Executive Order 202.6.
https://blog.adafruit.com/2020/03/22/covid/
https://esd.ny.gov/guidance-executive-order-2026


We are prioritizing-


Essential manufacturing including:
Microelectronics/semi-conductor


Medical equipment/instruments including:
Warehouse/distribution and fulfillment


Essential health care operations including:
Medical supplies and equipment manufacturers and providers


We will resume shipping all orders soon, we need to know if your current order is urgent and requires components and equipment used for COVID-19 (Coronavirus) related efforts and any other essential businesses and services. If this applies to you, please provide any documentation or details you have pertaining to your shipment that could help us to classify it as urgent and/or essential.


Additionally - please contact us for urgent and specific needs: covid19@adafruit.com


7:37 Raspberry Pi Thermal-Visual Player combines the images from a Raspberry Pi camera and an Adafruit MLX90640 thermal camera on screen using CircuitPython. - Twitter and GitHub


8:04 Pigweed is a collection of embedded-targeted libraries. They are open source for 32-bit microcontroller development released by Google. They address the classic challenge in the embedded space of reducing the time from running git clone to having a binary executing on a device, setting up an entire suite of tools needed for non-trivial production embedded projects. - Google Blog and Source


8:26 Allowing student access to the serial REPL in CircuitPython on Chromebooks can be difficult on centrally locked down devices. Here is a web based IDE (crafted in HTML and JavaScript) that lets you see the REPL. Luckily due to WebUSB, this is actually possible as long as you are using a modern version of Chrome. - Forum Post and GitHub


8:46 CircuitPython work to interface an Adafruit CLUE board with the Elecfreaks Joystick:bits. - Twitter and Blog


9:04 David Glaude gets Pimoroni Blinkt working with Adafruit CLUE - https://twitter.com/DavidGlaude/status/1240394392751476736


9:26 Adafruit Python on Hardware newsletter draft can be found here: https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython-weekly-newsletter/blob/gh-pages/_drafts/2020-03-24-draft.md


## 10:15 State of CircuitPython, Libraries and Blinka
### 11:00 Overall
* 194 pull requests merged
  * 16 authors - dhalbert, dkhawk, sommersoft, hierophect, FoamyGuy, geekguy-wy, siddacious, jepler, NightSkySK, tannewt, andreamah, theacodes, caternuson, brentru, dherrada, ben-lewis
  * 9 reviewers - makermelissa, dhalbert, ladyada, hierophect, FoamyGuy, tannewt, kattni, brentru, jerryneedell
* 16 closed issues by 7 people, 9 opened by 7 people


Overall: 5.0 stable remains quite stable.  We haven’t run into any issues, and we are currently working on doing our next release which is centered around ulab.  It’ll be super exciting to get that include, but we wanted to make sure we were doing it right which is why it wasn’t included in 5.0.  Please install 5.0 and let us know any problems you may have.  It’s really important to update to the latest stable version at any time.


As far as the libraries go, we are nearly done upgrading pylint and implementing black.  Thanks to Dylan for that.  Once that’s done we will be able to use the newer pylint on everything.  I updated the Using Pylint On Your Own Computer Guide to  include the latest use and how to install it.  If you are going to contribute to circuitpython library please consult that guide.


### 13:43 Core
* 11 pull requests merged
  * 7 authors - NightSkySK, tannewt, dhalbert, dkhawk, theacodes, jepler, hierophect
  * 3 reviewers - tannewt, dhalbert, hierophect
* 8 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2366 (Open 104 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2598 (Open 45 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2675 (Open 20 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2685 (Open 16 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2706 (Open 8 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2718 (Open 4 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2717 (Open 4 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/2723 (Open 0 days)
* 1 closed issues by 1 people, 3 opened by 2 people
* 267 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/issues
* 6 active milestones
  * 5.x.0 - Features: 7 open issues
  * 5.x.x - Bug Fixes: 23 open issues
  * 6.0.0: 26 open issues
  * Libraries: 11 open issues
  * Long term: 196 open issues
  * Support: 4 open issues
  * 0 issues not assigned a milestone


* Core download stats available at https://circuitpython.org/stats


### 14:58 Libraries
* 183 pull requests merged
  * 9 authors - sommersoft, FoamyGuy, geekguy, siddacious, andreamah, caternuson, brentru, dherrada, ben-lewis
  * 8 reviewers - makermelissa, dhalbert, ladyada, FoamyGuy, tannewt, kattni, brentru, jerryneedell
  * Merged pull requests:
    * Oldest: 17 days.
    * For the list of merged PRs, check the library report here: https://adafruit-circuit-python.s3.amazonaws.com/adabot/bin/reports/circuitpython_library_report_20200323.txt
* 15 closed issues by 7 people, 5 opened by 4 people
* https://circuitpython.org/contributing
  * 166 open issues
  * 30 open pull requests (Oldest: 441, Newest: 1)
Library updates in the last seven days:
**New Libraries**
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_DS1841](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_DS1841)
**Updated Libraries**
For the list of updated libraries, check the library report here: https://adafruit-circuit-python.s3.amazonaws.com/adabot/bin/reports/circuitpython_library_report_20200323.txt


### 17:33 Blinka
* 0 pull requests merged
  * 0 authors - 
  * 0 reviewers - 
* 0 open pull requests
* 0 closed issues by 0 people, 1 opened by 1 people
* 37 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/issues
* PyPI Downloads in the last week: 3698
Number of supported boards: 38




## 18:29 Hug reports
25:26 @andrew tribble
* Group hug
* Special hug to all of the folks at Adafruit, and anyone else in an area that is impacted by local stay-at-home measures.


@anne b (lurking)


@carter (lurking in place)

@cgrover (lurking today)

25:50 @charlesburnaford
* Group hug to Adafruit shipping before shutdown
* Group hug and good health to everybody else


26:42 @danh
* @pt and @ladyada and everyone at Adafruit for being careful, conscientious, generous, and figuring out the best things to do in this bad situation.
* @heymanrl,  @PrinceAli321, and @haukehaseler for helping to debug the SAMD51 spurious flash writes issue. (https://github.com/adafruit/uf2-samdx1/issues/95)
* @jepler for getting ulab ready for release, and for updating GitHub actions.
* @tannewt for all the low-power work
* @kattni for steadfastness in the wake of PyCon cancellation.
* Group hug to all


@davep (lurking today)


28:21 @DavidGlaude (lurking)
* Group Hug.
* Special Hug for Adafruit for what they do for NY and their employees.


28:32 @Drew Fustini
* Hug to ladyada and pt for hosting a MEGA show n tell.  It’s great to see global maker community have opportunities to connect and share
* @siddacious for pushing the app loader experiment for the OHS wristbadge so I could try it out


29:30 @Duewester (Lurking)
* Group Hug to all for keeping up this system through the hard times.
* Congrats to Adafruit on the medical services allowance.


29:44 @foamyguy
* @tannewt for getting me pointed in the right direction on some displayio / screen initialization issue I was working on.
* @de∫hipu - received my Pew Pew M4 had lots of fun playing with it already, and I’m sure lots more to come.
* @kattni and @dherrada for letting me help out with pylint and black updates / releases. I learned a bunch about both pylint and black as well as a few github / automation tricks from this experience.
* Group hug to all. Especially those having their lives disrupted. I am very grateful for this positive and supporting community during this time. 


31:05 @geekguy (missing meeting)
* Group hug to the entire Circuitpython team for being awesome
* @jerryn, @brentru, and @de∫hipu for helping me figure out that my code is better than I thought, and for being awesome and patient with me.


31:25 @hierophect
* Hugs to the Adafruit team for their awesome COVID efforts and consideration
* @Jeremy G for a cool new addition to the Circuitpython board list, the Thunderpack, and for highlighting some issues with USB on the F412
* @tannewt for his work on the low power code


33:10 @jepler
* Group hug
* Echoing many others in sending hug reports to everyone who has been thrust into work-from-home
* @tannewt for helpful advice about displayio
* @danh for past and future help teaching me how to do github releases


33:56 @jerryn
* Group wave.
* @kattni for updating and explaining the changes to the pylint guide.


20:00 @kattni
* @PT and @ladyada for their dedication to their people, and everything they’ve done to approach this situation in a well-planned and supportive manner.
* Everyone on the Adafruit team who is learning new things (possibly for the first time) to handle the work from home situation - you’re all doing great and we (the previously remote folks) are here to support you.
* @JohnPark for doing the images for my Bonsai Buckaroo guide
* @dherrada for getting through the Pylint/Black update/implementation
* @foamyguy for all the support on Discord and help with releases
* @jerryn for providing a ton of support on Discord
* The folks at the PSF and PyCon US 2020 for making the tough decision to cancel
* The @Community Helpers and @CircuitPython Helpers on Discord for stepping up to meet the support demands as they increase
* The Adafruit community for remaining supportive and positive as the online community becomes significantly more active.


@kingernorth (lurking)




@kjw (lurking)
22:33 @MakerMelissa
* @pt and @ladyada for their deep care for everybody who is part of Adafruit.
* Adafruit employees who are dealing with such difficult circumstances and adjusting to working remotely 
* @hhk7734 for adding the Odroid C4 board over the weekend
* Group Hug to everyone


@Mr. Certainly (lurking)


@sdw_nj (lurking)


23:09 @sommersoft (text-only)
* Group hug! Stay healthy everyone!


23:18 @tannewt
* All the folks at Adafruit HQ who are having their life disrupted and are making the most of it.
* @Anne B for taking lead on the CircuitPython newsletter.
* @ben-lewis for the MAX31865 improvement PR
* @jgillick for new STM board. Really interesting form factor!


24:51 @v923z (can’t make meeting today)
* @jepler for helping out with the test suite in ulab, and for diligently porting the code to circuitpython every time I modify it
* @jepler once again for his excellent examples on using ulab. This hug has long been overdue. Let it be two hugs, and a pat on the back!
* @marius_450 for his suggestions on the implementation of new functions in ulab.
## 34:20 Status Updates
44:32 @Andrew Tribble
* Last week:
   * Light community support
   * Not much to report as i prepare for getting shut-in this week
* This Week:
   * Despite saying it a few times, perhaps the social distancing will help me focus, going to dip into Github and get my feet wet helping out there 
   * continued discord activity.


@Anne B (lurking)


@cater (lurking)


@cgrover (lurking)


45:22 @charlesburnaford 
* I got my Grand Central just in time before the shutdown and I very much appreciate that.  You really did a snap job in sending that to me.
* I’m just going to continue playing around with my draw bar project and see if I can get an easily constructible device.  Right now the way I built it, it’s really difficult to get it to work easily.  Wish me luck and I’ll be back next week.


46:33 @danh
* Wrote and debugged a BLE thermometer service that works with a number inexpensive multi-probe thermometers that share the same protocol (“iBBQ”).
* Working on wrappers that reduce the amount of boilerplate for simple BLE applications (see In the Weeds)
* Still debugging spurious SAMD51 flash writes on power cycling
* Will write a BLE Pulse Oximeter service


@DaveP (lurking)


48:20 @DavidGlaude (lurking)
* Last week
   * Disconnected from Adafruit Discord :-( (because we use discord for work now and I use another account for that)
   * BLE Rover: controlling motor from CLUE+BIT:2:Pi and Ryanteck motor driver: https://twitter.com/DavidGlaude/status/1241730185206038529?s=20
* Next week
   * Controlling Energenie ENER314-IR (IR send/receive) from CLUE+BIT:2:Pi
   * Other CLUE+BIT:2:Pi such as “LED SHIM” or “Unicorn HAT HD” from Pimoroni


@duewester (lurking)


49:02 @foamyguy
* Last week
   * Helped with releasing the black / pylint updates
   * Getting reacquainted with the learn guide system. Working through the meta guides, and looking through many of the recently published guides.
   * Got started on “Making your first game with CircuitPython” guide
* Next week
   * Keep going on the guide


49:59 @geekguy (missing meeting)
* More RFM69 Radio stuff
* Start poking at Bluetooth for the Bluefruit LE SPI Friend


50:15 @hierophect
* Last week:
   * Rewrote the package management system for STM32 to support the new H7 form factors more easily
   * Did an overall review of the mpconfigboard makefile settings and the makefile itself to prep for the H7 and F7 additions
   * Wrote the new clock settings module for the H7
   * Wrote some python tools to automatically generate pin and peripheral tables for MCUs, which I probably should have done earlier but better late than never…
   * Wrote a module todo list for H7 and F7 modules with significant differences from the F4 modules, such as the ADC. 
* This week:
   * Pin definitions for the STM32H743 Nucleo and the Open MV, which uses the same MCU
   * Module restrictor for H7 and F7 modules that are still in development
   * Start working on the module ports
   * Get a PR in for the basics so I can sync up with Tannewt’s low power stuff and the new NVM module
   * Lots of cleanup that’s been brought up recently, but should probably be put off until I get merged into the Power stuff


53:51 @jepler
* Last week:
   * Lots of progress on integrating Protomatter, a library for driving RGB75 displays
   * Started working on 5.1.0 release
* This week:
   * Transition to actions@v2, if I can get some more roadblocks out of the way
   * Make 5.1.0-rc.0 release
   * Continue working on Protomatter
      * Finish making displayio work
      * Adapt to nrf52


55:08 @jerryn
* Learned to use black and updated my local pylint
* Updated rfm69 PR to merge some changes from master
   * Still need someone to review/approve -- or not


35:01 @kattni
* Last week:
   * Published Bonsai Buckaroo guide
   * Fritzing objects for two revised boards
   * Helped Erin with code for her Burning Wizard Staff
   * Worked with Sommersoft to patch the Code of Conduct across all the libraries
   * Reviewed and merged all the PRs for the Pylint/Black project
   * GitHub says 383 PRs reviewed in March
      * Kattni’s GitHub Quick Stats for 13-17 March: 617 “contributions”
   * Various things I’m pretty sure I’m forgetting.
   * Updated to Catalina
* This week:
   * Update guides for APDS9960 and VL6810 to include STEMMA revision
   * Update Gemma default files on GitHub
   * Add a few libs to the bundle
   * Catalina Update: Provide permissions to Mac OS apps for the rest of my life


@KingerNorth (lurking)


@kjw (lurking)


37:34 @MakerMelissa
* Last week:
   * Finished up getting Platform Detect guide published
   * Worked on Blinka Guide
   * Started Dashboard Reskinning
* This Week:
   * Continue Dashboard Reskin (probably finish).
   * Finish up Blinka Guide. Hardest part already done.


@Mr. Certainly (lurking)


@sdw_nj (lurking)


38:17 @sommersoft (text-only)
* Last Week:
   * Libraries:
      * Finished remaining patches.
   * Circuitpython.org:
      * Updated its adabot submodule; now gives a daily report for pylint version being out of date.
   * Got familiar with boto3, and retrieving S3/CloudWatch metrics. Spoke with @danh briefly about some CloudWatch limitations, and will explore directly accessing the logs vs S3/CloudWatch API.
* This Week:
   * Some RosiePi work to re-establish the test runner.
   * Hopefully get some S3/CloudWatch log examples to further a solution for core download metrics.


38:55 @tannewt
* Continuing sleep work. 
   * Fixed up SAMD21.
   * Found DotStar crash on Trinket M0 and fixed it separately.
   * Did Spresense patchwork and moved onto STM32. Really interesting that its clock system involves a higher idle current draw.
   * Need to wrap up STM32. Using TIM6 for PulseIn.
   * STM32 is different from SAMD and nRF because the RTC is a clock, not counter.
   * The native low frequency oscillator is 32k (not 32.768k).
* Next/last up is iMX RT which has two RTCounters, one that is low power and one that isn’t.
* Getting an ESP32-S2 coming my way and will switch to it once it’s here.


44:08 @v923z (can’t make the meeting today)
* Last week I added arctan2 and around to ulab. I am really glad that the request came from the community.
* In the coming week(s) I will be working on ulab internals, and try to respond to any comments/wishes from the circuitpython community
## 57:56 In The Weeds
58:00 @jepler - Any issues to raise about the state of the 5.1.x branch before -rc.0?


59:40 @danh - Structure of BLE wrapper libraries:
* Separate “Simple BLE” library”, or additional classes in existing library? I would have liked “EZ BLE” but there are boards with that name.
   * Simple_BLE
* Callbacks vs subclassing
   * Subclassing preferred
## 1:03:20 Wrap-Up
