# CircuitPython Weekly Meeting for August 8, 2022


Welcome to the CircuitPython Weekly meeting notes! Feel free to add your Hug Reports and Status Updates early. During the meeting, we go through them as a round robin sorted by username. If you can’t make the meeting and would still like to participate, add your notes with a “(missing meeting)” after your username and we’ll read them off for you. 


Add any longer-form discussion topics or general questions you have to the “In the weeds” section. 


Thanks! We hope to see you in the meeting!


Jeff is hosting.


Video is available [on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUKcgfoCcSw).


Join here for the chat all week: http://adafru.it/discord.


The CircuitPython Weekly happens normally at 2pm ET/11am PT on Mondays. Check the #circuitpython channel on Discord for notices of change in time and links to past meetings. Meeting times are also available in [iCal format](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/adafruit/adafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting/master/meeting.ical) for use with standard calendar applications and can also be viewed [in your browser](https://open-web-calendar.herokuapp.com/calendar.html?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fadafruit%2Fadafruit-circuitpython-weekly-meeting%2Fmain%2Fmeeting.ical&title=CircuitPython%20Meeting%20Schedule&tab=agenda&tabs=month&tabs=agenda).


If you want to be able to participate in the meeting by speaking, you will need to be added to the @circuitpythonistas role on Discord. Please ask any one of the moderators or admins to add you if you’d like to join.


CircuitPython development is sponsored by Adafruit. Please support them by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com.


Reminders: Podcast available on most services. Let us know if we’re missing some.
## 3:16 Community News
Web Workflow Added for ESP32 Programming in CircuitPython
 Web Workflow Added for ESP32 

Of all the great microcontrollers on the market today, ESP32 (the original, no suffix) had been left out of CircuitPython due to not having native USB, allowing it to act like a flash drive for code. Scott and Dan just merged in Web (WiFi) Workflow for CircuitPython 8.0.0 alpha and ESP32 which means that it’s now incredibly easy to start working with chips like the ESP32 which have excellent WiFi networking but do not have USB mass-storage - Adafruit Blog.
 Web Workflow Added for ESP32 

Now when we visit the IP address displayed on the odroid’s screen, it will let us immediately go to the built-in serial console that is also web-compatible! Any repl commands are echoed on the display as well. Next up will be uploading files – Video.
CircuitPython Day 2022 - August 19th
 CircuitPython Day 2022 

Friday August 19 (8/19/2022) is CircuitPython Day 2022, being designated the snakiest day this year! The day highlights all things CircuitPython and Python on Hardware.
Extending CircuitPython: The Fibonacci Adventure
 The Fibonacci Adventure in Extending CircuitPython 

Before actually contributing to CircuitPython, Lee Atkinson thought to try a toy extension. A non-hardware related Fibonacci Generator for the RaspberryPi Pico. The process is excellent at learning the methodologies on how to add to CircuitPython - GitHub.
 Baby Monitor Haptic Mod 

Baby Monitor Haptic Mod - adding a motor driver and BLE to a VTech baby monitor to enable alternative outputs, like haptic feedback, with CircuitPython - hackaday.io.




### Newsletter Details
The CircuitPython Weekly Newsletter is a CircuitPython community-run newsletter emailed every Tuesday. The complete [archives are here](https://www.adafruitdaily.com/category/circuitpython/). It highlights the latest Python on hardware related news from around the web including CircuitPython, Python and MicroPython developments. 
To contribute your own news or project, edit next week's draft [on GitHub](https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython-weekly-newsletter/tree/gh-pages/_drafts) and [submit a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/editing-files-in-your-repository/) with the changes. You may also tag a tweet with #CircuitPython on Twitter, or email cpnews@adafruit.com.
## 6:33 State of CircuitPython, Libraries and Blinka
### Overall
These results are one day old, apologies if this causes me to miss recognizing anyone’s contribution!


* 19 pull requests merged
  * 13 authors - wtuemura, weblate, gamblor21, Neradoc, urfdvw (River Wang), bergdahl, bill88t, FoamyGuy, dhalbert, eirinnm, tannewt, jepler, andywarburton
  * 5 reviewers - ladyada, gamblor21, jepler, tannewt, dhalbert
* 17 closed issues by 7 people, 22 opened by 19 people


### 8:02 Core
* 17 pull requests merged
  * 12 authors - wtuemura, weblate, andywarburton, gamblor21, Neradoc, urfdvw, bergdahl, bill88t, FoamyGuy, dhalbert, jepler, tannewt
  * 5 reviewers - ladyada, gamblor21, jepler, tannewt, dhalbert
* 19 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/5352 (Open 325 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/5999 (Open 178 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6037 (Open 172 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6119 (Open 154 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6217 (Open 127 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6247 (Open 123 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6349 (Open 94 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6397 (Open 84 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6410 (Open 79 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6522 (Open 44 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6555 (Open 33 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6594 (Open 24 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6634 (Open 15 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6684 (Open 4 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6681 (Open 4 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6693 (Open 3 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6701 (Open 1 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6708 (Open 0 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/pull/6705 (Open 0 days)
* 15 closed issues by 5 people, 12 opened by 9 people
* 556 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/circuitpython/issues
* 5 active milestones
  * 7.3.x: 0 open issues
  * 8.0.0: 51 open issues
  * Libraries: 22 open issues
  * Long term: 481 open issues
  * Support: 3 open issues
  * -1 issues not assigned a milestone


* Core download stats available at https://circuitpython.org/stats


### 9:34 Libraries
* 2 pull requests merged
  * 2 authors - eirinnm, Neradoc
  * 2 reviewers - ladyada, dhalbert
  * Merged pull requests:
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MAX31856/pull/19 (Days open: 1)
    * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Requests/pull/112 (Days open: 1)
  * 27 open pull requests (Oldest: 677, Newest: 1)
* 2 closed issues by 2 people, 10 opened by 10 people
  * 667 open issues
  * 177 good first issues
* https://circuitpython.org/contributing


####  Updated Libraries
Library updates in the last seven days:
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_MAX31856](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_MAX31856)
 * [Adafruit_CircuitPython_Requests](https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_CircuitPython_Requests)
 * [CircuitPython_Community_Bundle](https://github.com/adafruit/CircuitPython_Community_Bundle)


### 11:25 Blinka
* 0 pull requests merged
  * 0 authors - 
  * 0 reviewers - 
* 4 open pull requests
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/417 (Open 543 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/pull/496 (Open 377 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka_bleio/pull/40 (Open 303 days)
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Python_PlatformDetect/pull/201 (Open 243 days)
* 0 closed issues by 0 people, 0 opened by 0 people
* 79 open issues
  * https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_Blinka/issues
* Piwheels Downloads in the last month: 9553
Number of supported boards: 89


## 12:40 Hug reports
@jepler (hosting meeting)
* Group hug, because last week turned into a vortex where I was largely alone with the camera project and didn’t interact a whole lot


@CGrover (text only)
* A long overdue hug to @kattni for graciously and enthusiastically helping with a local pre-commit issue for the Community Bundle that I was convinced was not local. 
* Congratulations to Anne and Amy!
* Group hug to the team and community.


@danh
* @jepler for exploring the edges of asyncio and finding issues
* @Eva for starting on a lot of guide cleanup
* Mazel tov to Anne and Amy on their wedding!


@david.glaude (text only)
* Congratulations to @AnneEngineer for a Twitter Trending wedding
* @ladyada and @tannewt for giving me a reason to try to time travel and tell the younger me to acquire a Odroid Go.
* @tannewt for an old style deep dive stream
* @jepler (?and? @danh) for trying to have CP also on the first generation Feather ESP32.


@foamyguy (missing meeting today)
* Group hug
* @tannewt for doing the deep dive stream last week and help with troubleshooting esp32-s3.


@kattni
* Congrats to Anne and Amy!
* Equally long overdue hug to @CGrover for persevering through a Git/GitHub issue
* Eva for zooming through a ton of Learn-related tasks to make guides better for everyone
* Everyone who has giving me CircuitPython day events or descriptions for events so I could get a schedule going
* Group hug!


@kmatch
* Congratulations to @AnneEngineer for getting hitched!
* @foamyguy for organizing and selecting the 3 HACKtablet winners
* @ladyada and @pt for the surprise unboxing on Ask an Engineer and for managing shipping for the giveaway
* All the folks that submitted to the HACKtablet drawing.  And to the winners, I can't wait to see what y’all do with these!


@Liz (BlitzCity) (text only/unable to attend live)
* @tekktrik for kindly reviewing and assisting with my first PR for a CircuitPython library
* @kattni for her work so far in planning CircuitPython day


@MakerMelissa
* Congratulations to Anne and Amy
* Group hug


@Mark(Gamblor21) [lurking]
* @retiredwizard and @tannewt for helping me get the web workflow going
* Group hug


@Paul Cutler (text only)
* @kattni for all the CircuitPython day planning
* Group hug


@tammymakesthings (text-only)
* @kattni for the CircuitPython day planning
* Group hug


@tannewt
* @foamyguy for hosting deep dives now and letting me guest host.
* @retiredwizard for more web workflow testing.
* @kattni for squeezing me into the CP day schedule.
* @MakerMelissa for the temporary redirect suggestion.


@tekktrik (likely not present)
* @kattni for all the work on planning CircuitPython Day!
* @Liz for their first library contribution!
* Group hug!
## 19:22 Status Updates
@jepler (hosting)
* Last week: esp32-camera
* This week: Finishing touches on esp32-camera, then out on vacation Thursday-Thursday inclusive
* Squeezing any necessary CircuitPython Day prep in there, hah.


@CGrover (text only)
* Finished the conceptual and coding portions of the Clue Coffee Scale learning guide. Need to incorporate the physical build chapter before putting a bow on it.
* After spending a couple of hours punching the proverbial paper bag, I successfully deployed a TCA9548A I2C multiplexer STEMMA QT board for a dual load cell project. As a result, I developed a draft TCA9548A Theory of Operation document for folks like me. The draft ToO could be used to supplement existing multiplexer documentation.
* Now that the weather’s promising to be cooler for at least for a few hours each morning, I’m determined to sequester out in the workshop to finish two 1/14th scale retro TV console cabinets that resemble my dad’s prized 1960s RCA behemoth. The tiny cabinets are sized to fit a 2.4” TFT FeatherWing and RP2040 Feather. No 3-D printing or CNC, although CAD was used in the design phase.


21:45 @danh
* Got ESP32 builds with no PSRAM working. Did the Feather HUZZAH32 board as a sample.
* Did a number of reviews.
* Going back to 8.0.0 bug hunting, and continuing to look at ESP32SPI, MQTT, and adafruit_requests issues.


@david.glaude (text only)
* I took my PyGamer with me on vacation and tested the Octopus game from @foamyguy and reported on my finding to him.


@foamyguy (missing meeting today)
* Still out of town, back to normal schedule on wednesday of this week
* Tinkering with size and memory metrics. Have created an actions task to print size of mpy file and the size of strings within it. Thinking about ways to do on-device memory size testing.
* Diving further into Dot clock display module this week and attempt to troubleshoot current hard fault. 


23:28 @kattni
* Last week:
   * Published PCF8574 guide
   * Created a schedule for CircuitPython Day
   * Short week
* Today so far:
   * Create a separate blog post with the CP Day schedule
   * Update the circuitpython.org CP Day banner to link to it
   * Went through all of my miscs and consolidated them in my list
* This week:
   * All the miscs. (There are many miscs.)
   * QA all of Eva’s Power Management templates
   * Continue to work on CircuitPython Day plans
   * Once done with miscs, learn to use Nordic PPK2.
   * Add Low Power templates to guides from which they are missing.
* Basement:
   * Long story short, Part 1 was completed by the deadline. End of last week was a mad scramble, but we managed to finish everything that we wanted done.
   * Part 2 will begin in September.


24:47 @kmatch
* Explored using the touchscreen interrupt pin to reduce time spent polling for touch events (versus via I2C). This leaves more cycles for drawing, now need to better understand how to control display animation speeds and refresh rates. 
* Tested several time-of-flight distance sensors for the bowling training aid.  None are sensitive or fast enough to reliably catch a 15 mph bowling ball passing at 15 mph (in 30 ms!).  
* In the process, I learned that the ToF sensors give a “signal quality” status response that is useful in weeding out invalid data.
* This week: Procure some ultrasonic distance sensors and temperature/humidity sensors and try again. Will try ultrasonic, since the reflection time will be about 5ms for a 1 meter distance (2m round trip).  Relative to IR time-of-flight, it’s likely less susceptible to ambient conditions, especially lighting and bowling ball color/reflectivity.


26:30 @makermelissa
* Last Week:
   * Short week due to being sick a couple of days
   * I’ve mostly been working on the code.circuitpython.org changes to add Web Workflow
      * Finished revising the various dialogs
      * Got the Serial Terminal working with Web Workflow
      * I also have reading and writing files as well as listing directories working.
      * Mkdir and delete added, but not tested yet.
* This Week:
   * Finish up the adding Web Workflow at a macro level
      * This will allow me to at least test for bugs in Web Workflow while Scott is available
   * After that start working on a the myriad of misc things that need to be wrapped up before a PR can be submitted
   * Lots of testing/debugging after that
   * Start working on prepping for my Livestream for CircuitPython day


27:45 @tammymakesthings (text-only)
* Last week:
   * Did some thinking about CircuitPython Day. I’d like to join in any group activities going on, and also do a CPY Day Twitch stream of my own.
   * Was buried with work for my day job. :-(
* This week:
   * Iron out what exactly I’m going to do for CircuitPython Day
   * Still buried with work for my day job, so I don’t know what else yet.


28:14 @tannewt
* Out on Friday this week and Thursday next week. Friday (CP Day) is my last day in a while. 12 weeks of paternity leave!
* Smattering of bug fixes:
   * Added BLE and execution status to title bar.
   * Switched to a temporary redirect for circuitpython.local that shouldn’t be cached.
   * Fixed S2/S3 USB with latest web workflow changes.
   * Fixed pasting a bunch of characters to C3.
   * Fixed SD card showing through web workflow. (Now it won’t.)
   * Enabled web workflow on Feather ESP32, QT Py ESP32 and Odroid Go.
   * Made ESP32 pin never_reset happen at runtime based on the module (like the IDF setup code.)
   * Saved space on SAMD21 by using my copy of libgcc.
   * Add UID: line to boot_out.txt for matching mass storage to serial connections.
   * Fixed BLE workflow
   * Remove enable/disable_autoreload in favor of supervisor.runtime.autoreload. *BREAKING*
   * Tweaked title bar and scroll area.
* This week:
   * Add error filename to title bar.
   * Many other bugs I’m sure.


31:53 @tekktrik (likely not present)
* Last week
   * Vacation!  Not much got done except soaking up the sun!
* This week
   * Move all the libraries from setup.py to pyproject.toml
   * Catch up on all the things I missed last week, including touching up some new libraries and some PRs and issues I was tagged in


## In The Weeds


@tekktrik (likely not present) (if tekktrik is out, kattni can read this and talk about it)
* It’d be helpful to have a small window of time free of merges to the libraries so things don’t get lost during the move to pyproject.toml, since it will be pushed to main branches.  This evening at 9pm EST works for me and I think would normally be unlikely to have merges at this time anyway.  Could we set 9pm-11:59pm EST tonight [8/8] (or another day) for the switch and associated clean up?
   * Maybe a guide?
   * Make sure cookiecutter is updated along with everything.
## 37:31 Wrap-Up
August 15 is next meeting
